[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: I'm
here with Pete Peterson,
and we are exploring some
of the early influences that
led to him being
able to have such
an incredible
scientific knowledge.
Every subject that Pete
seems to talk about,
he has amazingly
technical details
that go far beyond what
most people would ever do.
So Pete, welcome
back to the show.
>>PETE PETERSON: Thank you much.
>>PETERSON: We've been talking
in the past about your work
with what appears to
have been some highly
classified, compartmentalized
program, which
may have been run
by the government,
that you were calling
White Star Ranch.
And you also said that they
were only kind of directing you,
loosely, through a very
advanced, and very prolonged
study program.
>>PETERSON: That's correct.
>>DAVID: You've also mentioned--
and this is some of the stuff
that we've talked
about off camera--
that you worked with some
really intense luminaries
in the course of these--
shall we say facilitated
study programs,
that you were brought into?
>>PETERSON: Absolutely.
>>DAVID: So could you start
with some of the names that
were earlier along of people who
you worked with, that we might
be able to look up or
corroborate some of the details
that you're sharing with us?
>>PETERSON: Well, some of
them were highly well known
in the esoteric science
field, or mathematics,
or other things.
Some of them were known
in the business field,
but differently than they--
definitely they were
different than they
were known about the public.
And I'll cover those
differences, and things
like that, as we go along.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: Some of them
are luminaries today
in their fields, and they
were beginners in those days.
And there are some of
them I co-studied with,
that were co-studiers
within this overall program.
And the White Star
Ranch thing was
kind of a coordinating thing,
and it was all very highly--
like, you never knew
who you were really--
who was directing it.
You never knew who was doing it.
It wasn't White Star Ranch.
All White Ranch
was there for was
to take care of the
paperwork, and the books,
and the bookings.
And the transportation,
and then--
I got my directions as to
where you'd be studying next,
or who you'd be studying
with next from there,
but it was like they were
just passing envelopes along.
So they weren't really--
this was a very
top secret program,
and they were really
compartmentalized.
>>DAVID: Were you
aware that it was
top secret from the beginning,
when you first started?
>>PETERSON: I was--
my original briefing
was one that made me
shiver for a couple years.
>>DAVID: Really?
What about the briefing
made you shiver so much?
>>PETERSON: Well, the fact
that if I opened my mouth
or said anything, I would
be summarily dismissed.
Permanently.
And that was made very clear.
And every once in
a while, somebody
boo booed in the program,
that you might have known
was in the program,
and they were no longer
in the program, or
any other program.
>>DAVID: Mm.
>>PETERSON: And
so-- you know, it's
like during the Gulf
War one, the F-117 was
introduced to the public.
The stealth fighter.
And everybody went, oh my god.
They never realized we had
anything this advanced.
What a wonderful craft.
It's just amazing, and et
cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Most of them had been in
mothballs for 20 years.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>PETERSON: I mean, that
was-- that was an old thing.
And yet nobody had
ever heard about it.
>>DAVID: Well, one of the--
Pete, one of the ones I've used,
just for people who don't think
that the government
ever keeps a secret,
would be the Manhattan Project.
>>PETERSON: Oh, absolutely.
>>DAVID: It's documented
that there was 130,000 people
working on it for many years.
Many of them-- most
of them didn't even
know what they were working
on until the bomb actually
went off.
In some cases, not even until
after the bomb went off.
>>PETERSON: Right
>>DAVID: So this
is something that
was reinforced with threats?
You were fearing
for your life if you
were to ever talk to anyone
about what was going on?
>>PETERSON: Oh, I couldn't
talk to my sister I was
very close to, and my parents.
>>DAVID: But yet some of the
names that you're going to be
sharing with us were essentially
celebrities, or at least--
>>PETERSON: Times have changed.
Many of them have passed away.
Some of their-- very
few of their exploits
are really known, yet they
were quite well known.
>>DAVID: Well I'm also
saying, though, it
must have been difficult
for you at the time
to know that you were working
with these big luminaries who
were publicly known,
but you couldn't
say a word about ever talking
to them at all, right?
>>PETERSON: Well, maybe
that's why I was selected.
I didn't ever have
a problem with that.
I had-- had had a problem
learning about it.
And of course, I had
friends that were--
admittedly was a
geek of the time.
A geek, you know?
A total geek.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>PETERSON: And had
no idea that women
had any other role than
cooking, and that kind of thing.
I was interested in
science, and I loved
spending my time in science.
And I was put into contact
with brilliant scientists.
I was put into laboratories
And I learned things
that I never would-- not
even today, a lot of the
things I'd have a chance
to learn anywhere else.
>>DAVID: Well,
let's get started.
Could you tell us one
of the earlier names
that we might be
able to look up?
Like somebody you studied with?
>>PETERSON: Start with
the earliest name.
The first contact I had
with one of my mentors
was Edwin Land, who was the
head of Polaroid Corporation.
>>DAVID: Hm.
>>PETERSON: And I remember
when I went out there--
I was 13 years old, and went
out there on a DC6 airplane.
That gives you an idea
how long ago it was.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>PETERSON: That was the
most modern thing we had
for hauling people.
And I got off the
plane, and he said,
if you think we're going to talk
about the GD Polaroid camera,
get back on the
plane and go home.
He was embarrassed
by it, because that
wasn't his real field.
And it's something
that he did in order
to make something
very new happen,
which was the Polaroid camera.
Now, his expertise was in
the field of human sight,
and how we actually see.
And I remember
the first comment,
he said, now, the
first lesson is
you don't see with your eyes.
And I'm trying to
think, well, yeah,
I have heard there
are other organs that
have light sensitivity,
but I don't see why
we talk about the eyes so much.
Well, turns out that we do see
with our eyes, but only very
primarily, and then the brain
converts those signals over
to what we see.
For example, 8 feet
away from a wall--
about the most sensitive,
or the smallest device
we have in our system to
see is the end of a rod.
The rod cells and
cone cells in the eye,
and the end of the rod--
>>DAVID: In the retina, yeah.
>>PETERSON: Is just
the tip of a pin.
And he said, now, if you
take the diameter of that
and multiply the
diameter backwards
through the magnification of
the lens of an eye, at 8 feet
the smallest thing you can
see on the wall over there,
it's not a cockroach.
It's like, a 1/4 inch
diameter-- it's like,
a ladybug, or about a 1/4
inch diameter type thing.
And I'm looking at the wall,
and I saw an ant crawling.
So how am I seeing the
ant crawl up the wall?
He says, that's exactly what
we're here to talk about.
He says, you don't see the
ant crawling up the wall.
What you see is it's a number
of sightings of this ant,
and then you put that
together with the ants
you've seen when you're
close up to the wall,
and the mind is not
only looking at the ant,
it's seeing how fast does
this thing go, how does it--
you know, how does it crawl?
And all of that goes
together, and then
that comes back and
says, oh, I remember
this thing you saw when we were
right up, looking at the wall.
That's an ant.
>>DAVID: Hm.
>>PETERSON: And
then from then on,
that little ant up in your
brain is what you see.
And then it warps itself
according to the movement
that it sees on this thing,
and makes an ant out of it.
>>DAVID: Do you
think that this may
be part of why there's
that legend of the Mayans
not being able to see the
ships of the conquistadors
as they were sailing in?
>>DAVID: It's learned.
All vision is learned.
You go into a new field--
you go into a new field
and you see things--
A, you see things differently.
B, you see other things.
It's like I-- taught
a lot of classes
when I was in the Marine
Corps, in survival.
And I taught a lot of
classes in combat survival,
which is very different.
And when people went
in, we had a huge--
we had a canyon, and we
had bleachers on one side,
and on the other side--
at Camp Pendleton
in California-- jungle.
Or apparent jungle.
And so you're looking out,
down through this canyon,
and up the other side.
And then they said
now, look to see
if you can see people behind
trees, in trees, behind bushes,
on the ground.
Well, you're in combat.
You want to know if
there's an enemy out there.
>>DAVID: Right.
Well, you're trying to
see little traces of them.
Yeah.
>>PETERSON: Well, now
you're trying to see them.
You want to know,
there's a sniper there.
There is a mortar outfit here.
And you're out looking
for very specific things.
This is your first day
on this training ground.
You look out there,
and you see nothing.
And then a sergeant
major or a gunny
walks out and says, attention!
And the whole damn field,
and the whole other side
of the thing, and all
the trees-- everything
just come alive.
And you realize
everybody was there,
but you didn't see a thing.
By the time you're done
with those classes,
you walk out there and you
can say, there's a sniper.
There's a guy with
a gun, there's
a guy with hand grenades.
There's a guy-- and
you can see 'em all.
Because what's happened is
you've now made recordings
in your mind of what
these things are,
and you'll have one-- each
person get up individually
and make movements.
>>DAVID: I think
you've mentioned
to me before something
called a ghillie suit.
Is that one of the
things that was--
>>PETERSON: One of the
things that we studied
there was the ghillie suit.
It's a Scottish thing,
coming from way back when.
And it's taking a
little bit of fishnet--
that's what they did--
and draping it
over your clothing.
Pinning it on, say,
with safety pins,
or whatever they
had in those days.
Buttons, probably.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: Or toggles.
And pinning it on, and having
different colors of threads--
yarns and threads hanging down--
and different pieces of
foliage and leaves sewn on.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>PETERSON: And you know,
you can look like a tree,
and part of a tree trunk.
You know, things that in real
life out there are vertical,
you have vertical on your suit.
Things that are horizontal, you
have horizontal on the suit.
And then you'll have some
tree branches stuck on there,
and so forth, and all of a
sudden, when the mind sees you,
the mind sees
everything else around,
because it's all the same shape,
and size, and orientation.
>>DAVID: So you
mentioned Ed Land
is saying that the eyes
aren't really seeing,
and that there's some
sort of associative memory
that has tracking of what
you already noticed before.
>>PETERSON: You see through the
filters that are in your brain.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: Your
eye eyes a sensor,
and it picks up-- it
picks up certain portions,
certain colors.
Part of your eye picks
up color, part of it
picks up black and white.
Part of it increases more and
more as the sun goes down,
or when the sun comes up.
Dead, and it goes down.
>>DAVID: Well, you know
something you remind me of?
It's really funny.
There's this video
on the internet,
and before you watch the
video, they tell you--
watch the basketball,
and see how many people--
how many times the basketball
bounces from one person
to another.
And you watch this
basketball going around--
I did it myself--
and I never saw that there is
this person who walks through,
in a jet black gorilla suit.
Very slowly, kind of
walks through the scene.
And you never see the gorilla.
But then when you
go back you're like,
oh my god, there
was a gorilla there.
>>PETERSON: This is the--
a good part of the
study of ninja.
Martial art, ninja art.
For example, if you don't ever
look at people in a scene,
the people in the
scenes never see you.
Many people, they never see.
That's why you bump into
people in the street,
and it's such a surprise
when you bump into someone.
It's because they
weren't looking at you.
Or it's because they had the
right color-- a different color
pattern on.
>>DAVID: Well, let's also talk--
I'm sure a lot of people
are thinking about this--
when you are hypothetically
taking psychedelic drugs--
not that any of us have ever
done that, but theoretically,
I've heard that people
take psychedelic drugs.
And that your
peripheral vision--
it doesn't work the
same way anymore.
You start seeing things
that aren't really there.
You have these
bizarre experiences.
>>PETERSON: Well,
on the other hand,
you may see things
that are there that you
haven't seen before, too.
>>DAVID: Right.
So is this part of the--
are hallucinations, and those--
you don't have to be tripping--
>>PETERSON: They're
not hallucinations.
They're part of our life.
And we can develop these skills,
just like develop the skill
to see someone in
very good camouflage.
Good camouflages only
last in the military
for four to five years.
Like four to five years
ago, we didn't have
a camouflage called multi-cam.
Now we've gone
almost all the way
through the multi-cam saying.
I'm back to the thing that I
think olive drab is probably
the best thing, because
then the mind can make up
whatever it wants to.
Instead of going down into
a narrow band of things
that we want to train the
eye to see, or not to see,
you ave a very broad band, which
the eye can decide what it is.
But you make it such that
it will decide that it is
something that it isn't.
>>DAVID: Well,
since we're focusing
on names in this episode,
let's talk a little bit more
specifically about
Ed Land, and what
was the exact nature
of this training?
He's starting to tell you
that the mind is seeing--
>>PETERSON: The idea
was to train me.
The end idea of my training,
my particular training
within this group, was to
be able to bring me any--
any type of problem, and have
me come up with a solution.
So I was trained in electronics,
and optics, and linguistics,
and mechanics, and physics.
And you know, et cetera,
et cetera, et cetera.
Overall, jack of all trades,
master of maybe a couple.
And it was very handy because
there's so much out there
that we haven't studied.
For example, James
Clerk Maxwell, father
of electromagnetic theory.
In studying
electromagnetics, I realized
that Maxwell, without the use
of all the modern equipment
we have--
laboratory
equipment-- he came up
with electromagnetic
theory, which
is the basis for all of
electronic sight, television,
et cetera, et cetera.
All the basis for all of
radio, all electromagnetic
communication, et cetera.
I was in England, and went to
whee-- his laboratory there.
And they have everything
that he ever wrote.
All the notes, all the--
in those days, you know,
we didn't have
electronic communication.
And all the notes, and
letters, and everything.
They had gone around the world
and gathered up all this stuff.
I got realizing that
of what he came up
with that was earth-shaking,
only about 10% of it
had ever been published.
>>DAVID: Yeah, I-- years
ago, years ago-- studied
Oliver Heaviside taking all of
these different mathematical
expressions that Maxwell
would come up with,
called quaternions, and
then boiling all of it
down to just four of them.
And finding that most of the
stuff that we needed to do,
electromagnetics
that we were doing,
could be done just
on these four,
so why do you want to mess
with all this other stuff?
>>PETERSON: Exactly.
And a lot of the
stuff was not done.
Each one of these things
was an invention as
important to humanity
as electromagnetics,
and electromagnetic radiation.
And yet nothing had ever
been done with it at all.
He was only capable of so
much, and it was so exciting
in those days.
They left off with it.
Oh, here we can communicate
over a distance.
Here we can-- and so there
was a lot of stuff there.
So I bought a brand new Xerox
machine, and wore it out.
And I have books, and
books, and books somewhere,
if they haven't been
molded away in storage.
But of different things that
I wanted to get back to,
but I've had such a busy
life, I've never done it.
>>DAVID: So this
multi-disciplinary education
you were given, as you
just said, had as its goal
making you the
ultimate go to guy
for fixing any type
of weird problem
that they might
have been facing.
>>DAVID: Well, one of them,
because there were a number
of us that were made this way.
Some you probably
know about was--
Patrick Flanagan was in
that same training group.
And--
>>PETERSON: He's the guy
who wrote the pyramid power
book that was so
famous in the 1970s.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>PETERSON: Yeah.
I remember one time I
had dinner with him when
he was visiting in Salt Lake.
I asked him about something
that he was doing, and he says,
people don't want the truth.
They want BS that sounds
exciting or familiar.
So I-- in my lab-- he
did it in his lab--
he did brilliant,
brilliant, brilliant work.
But you rarely saw that
come out in public,
because the people weren't
sophisticated enough
to know how good it was.
And it completely overruled
the science of the day.
>>DAVID: So it sounds like this
was a very unusual education
that you were being given.
>>PETERSON: Well, I would--
I would work with the
teacher for a period of time.
Six months, usually, or
somewhere in that area.
Then I would work within that
field for a period of time,
where actual work was going on.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: And
they'd move me around.
If there were three things
going on, I'd move here,
and I'd move here,
I'd move here.
So I would get an
upgraded experience,
plus I'd get hands on--
hands on knowledge.
And I would devise experiments
later on, as I got smarter.
>>DAVID: Can you give us
another example of somebody
that we might be able to look
up, that you studied with?
>>PETERSON: There
was a gentleman
that was exceedingly famous,
but unfortunately his timing
was off.
We called him Ed,
but Ewart Baldwin.
And he's the gentleman that
built the first transistor.
And then his teachers
at the time--
Bardeen, Brattain, and--
used to know the other one--
took the credit for it.
He formed the
first semiconductor
company, which I think was--
>>DAVID: Off camera you had
said National Semiconductor.
>>PETERSON: National
Semiconductor.
And then he built--
and I don't know exactly
which order, but he
built Hughes Semiconductor,
Rheem Semiconductor--
R-H-E-E-M.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: Several others.
And he had two right
hand scientists
that worked with him
through all of this.
As he got older, they broke
off and formed a company
that you'll know, that got
very famous by developing--
they'd been developing
a device to make
what's called a dumb terminal.
In the early days of computers,
you had key switches.
You'd put 1100101
enter, and you'd
do that for quite a while.
And then you'd get the computer
to realize it was a computer,
and it would come up with
a basic operating system.
And then you could program
it with a dumb terminal,
and control it with a
dumb terminal phone.
If you push an a, the terminal
shows an A on the screen.
If you push B, it shows
a B on the screen.
If you push return, it sends
the A and the B to the computer,
and they disappear
from the screen.
And it'll send you
something back.
And up until the mid
'80s, that's how all--
we called them IBM personal
computers-- would work.
That you had a dumb
terminal, and then you
had a computer that
would take that.
So you programmed
in a language called
DOS, which was Disk
Operating System,
and it would take the
data, put it into a disk,
bring it off a disk, process it.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
I had some corporate jobs
in the early '90s where
you had to use
these LAN terminals,
and the LAN was
local access network.
It was all central
computer brain,
and your dumb terminal didn't
have any computer in it.
>>PETERSON: Right.
>>DAVID: And they
were horribly slow.
>>PETERSON: And they
were horribly large.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>PETERSON: And-- so
there was this company
that was formed, called Intel.
By Ed Baldwin's two
right hand people.
And they were to
make a chip that
would replace a lot of
the individual components.
You looked in that
dumb terminal,
there were 10 times
more chips in there
than there are on a typical
desktop computer today.
And all they were doing
was just arranging
what you were
putting in, and what
was coming out in a logical
sequence, so you could read it.
>>DAVID: So what did Ed
Baldwin actually teach you
when you started
to study with him?
>>PETERSON: Well again, he
was like Land, who said,
let's not talk about the camera.
Let's talk about sight.
Ed Baldwin said, let's
talk about quantum physics.
>>DAVID: Really?
>>PETERSON: And his thing
was quantum physics.
And he had made a lot of changes
in it, and hadn't told anybody.
And he told me, and
he made it right,
and made it very appealing.
Very--
>>PETERSON: Why wouldn't
he want to tell anybody?
>>DAVID: Well, for
the same reason
you don't want to tell
people things today.
As soon as you say
something, somebody else out
there is either
brighter than you are,
or they got more money involved
with them than you have,
and they will take
your idea, and they
will patent it before you
can even think about it.
And or the government will--
the government reviews
every patent application,
and gets first pick.
And they've been,
as best I can tell,
very fair with things, in that
they will come back and make
a bargain with you.
And turn it back to you when
it's no longer something
secret, and a number of things.
But you'll be paid
for your work.
And an appropriate
amount of money.
>>DAVID: I want to know
what Ed Baldwin discovered
about quantum mechanics
that's not conventional.
What did he see
that was so unique?
>>PETERSON: Well, he saw
a little different way
of structuring it, which
expanded its capabilities
dramatically.
Anything you learn about is
learned about in some area
that you know something about,
and you've noticed an anomaly.
And he decided,
what's that anomaly?
Well, there might have been 500
anomalies in quantum physics,
and so a few things
that he was also very
good in semiconductor theory--
and so he looked at it as
a semiconductor theorist,
as well as from a quantum
physics type of person.
So he could say,
well, this over here--
he'd say this I'd
really like to look at,
because I know it will allow
us to do things with energy.
We can increase heat,
or decrease heat.
So we can cool things.
Always in science you're trying
to heat or cool something.
And like in an automobile
you have radiators,
and radiating structures.
A certain amount of oil capacity
to cool the engine by airflow
past the oil waves, and such.
And so he'd
discovered some things
about semiconductors
that were very strange.
And like, for
example, hole theory,
which is used
there, making a hole
in the normal atomic matrices,
and the molecular matrices.
And moving holes instead
of electrons or protons.
Later on I came to realize that
electrons and protons were very
good theoretical
things that allowed
you to do a lot of--
a lot of good work,
but they had very little
to do with reality.
>>DAVID: Well, let me just add
this in, because I know you
and I have talked
about this before--
I've studied this whole
area a lot myself,
and I know that most
of what people take for
granted as being--
what's going on at
the quantum level--
is based on things
like certain elements
give off a particular
color spectrum,
And then they make assumptions
based on these particular lines
of color, or the
so-called black body
radiation that it gives off.
Or they will shoot a
subatomic particle,
if you want to call it that,
into a chamber of very highly
compressed gas or liquid, and
it will squiggle a certain way
in the chamber, and then they
make all these very, very
elaborate equations
based off of the spiral
calculations of these paths.
And yet nobody's ever really
seen anything down there.
Nobody ever actually
knows what's down there.
Would you agree?
>>PETERSON: Exactly.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: You
know, you have things
that you do this, and
you'll get this result.
You have things you
do a different thing,
and you'll get a different
result. You have things,
you do this, and you
get a same result.
And you combine
all those together,
and you make up a supposition.
And then you test
the supposition,
and it turns out to
work pretty well.
>>DAVID: What are some
of the cool things
that his new interpretation
of quantum mechanics
would allow you to do?
>>PETERSON: Well, one of the
things was we took an old Xerox
machine--
this was in later
life, when I came back,
and we became partners
on a couple things.
You know, 30, 40 years later.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: He was nearing
the end of his lifespan,
but he had some very good ideas.
We took a Xerox
machine, and we made
a thing we could slit
mylar sheets in it,
and print photo cells
at about $0.25 a watt.
We made some special batteries,
or electronic storage devices.
Well, I'll call them batteries.
They were something different,
but we'll call them batteries.
But they stored electricity.
Some of them were very,
very good as solar cells.
And then we learned how to
make better, and better,
and better solar cells.
So now there are
cells that are--
lithium ion phosphate
cells that are
as efficient at converting solar
energy into electric energy.
Some of them up
25%, 26% efficient.
In production
there's always a 10,
or 6, or 7 year break
between, you know,
a physical thing that you
can show as a reality,
and something that you
can use at home with.
>>DAVID: So there were practical
applications, obviously?
>>PETERSON: Very
practical applications.
He passed away about
three or four years ago.
>>DAVID: It's really
good to get this down,
and we've got a lot more coming.
So thank you, Pete,
for being here.
And I want to thank
you for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]